IBX-5413: Ibexa CDP product guide added in Developer documentation (#2317)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/cdp/cdp_guide.md

For more information, see [data customization](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_data_customization/#data-customization) documentation in Developer Documentation.

### Client-side Tracking

The final step is setting up a tracking script.
For more information, see [CDP add client-side tracking](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_activation/cdp_add_clientside_tracking/) and [tutorial in Raptor documentation](https://support.raptorsmartadvisor.com/hc/en-us/articles/9563346335004-Client-Side-Tracking).

### Audience Builder

In the Audience Builder, you can create audiences - groups of users that meet the assumed conditions.
You can choose specific conditions: `did`, `did not`, or `have`.
The conditions `did` and `did not` allow you to use events like buy, visit or add to a cart from online tracking. The  `have` conditions are tied to personal characteristics and can be used to track the sum of all buys or top-visited categories. 

You can also connect created audiences to the activations.

![Audience Builder](img/audience_builder.png)

## Limitations

> [[= product_name_cdp =]] doesn't support column mapping, which allows you to match records on JSON data directly.

Author: Ok, removed :)

---
description: The Ibexa CDP (Customer Data Platform) product guide provides a full description of its features as well as the benefits it brings to the client.
---

# [[= product_name_cdp =]] product guide

## What is [[= product_name_cdp =]] (Customer Data Platform) 

[[= product_name_cdp =]] is a Customer Data Platform module that helps you build unique and memorable experiences for your customers.
Using [[= product_name_cdp =]] you can monitor and compile data about your customers' activity on multiple channels.
It also allows you to create individual customer profiles so you can customize their experience on your platform.

With [[= product_name_cdp =]] you can store and manage large volumes of customer data in a structured manner. This central data storage supports business growth with a scalable infrastructure, helping to futureproof your business. 
You can get customer data from both online and offline data sources.

> It includes first, second, and third-party data from multiple sources such as transactional systems, website tracking and behavior, POS, CRM, and others.

Author: I'd keep previous version, as it's shorter. New one is too long.

## Availability

[[= product_name_cdp =]] is available in all [[= product_name =]] editions.

## How does Ibexa CDP work

[[= product_name_cdp =]] unifies customer data throughout your whole organization. It helps you activate your users and give them real-time interaction.
You can target certain user segments with the appropriate message, content, or products at the right time through the most used channels by using specified audiences.
The customer data is gathered through a system of trackers embedded in various areas of your page.

![CDP - how does it work](img/cdp_how_works.png)

### Installation and configuration

To start using [[= product_name_cdp =]], first you need to contact your sales representative. You'll receive a link to [register your [[= product_name_cdp =]] account](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_installation/#install-cdp-package). Once you'll be done with registration process, you'll be able to access a separate instance with the data needed to configure, activate, and use this feature. 

> Once your account is created, you can [download and install [[= product_name_cdp =]] package](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_installation/#install-cdp-package) that is opt-in and needs to be downloaded separately. Last step is to go through the [configuration process](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_activation/cdp_configuration/).

Reviewer: Generally speaking, we avoid "once" as it may be ambiguous word for non-native speakers.

### Customer profile

Using [[= product_name_cdp =]] you can build 360° customer profiles. It unifies customer data from different sources to help you understand your prospects and customer needs. 
Once you get customer data, you can unify and match customer profiles based on their preferences and habits. This process contributes to build a single customer view. Based on demographics, interactions, behaviors, and transactional data you can create and analyze complete, 360° customer profiles.

![Customer profile](img/customer_profile.png)

> ### Segment groups

Reviewer: AFAIK Segments are a part of the platform, so can be mentioned here.

> ### Segment groups

Reviewer 2: I agree, they should be mentioned here, but not described in a way they currently are. The description included here describes the use of segments in Personalization, while, as far as I understand, in CDP segments are used to categorize customers, and whatever is done with this information depends on another feature that uses it.
It is the other end of the funnel, so to say.

@dkorostynski please have your say

To create a personalized customer experience, you need to group your clients into specified audiences.
[[= product_name =]] comes with a ready solution - segment groups.
Segments make it possible to receive customized content for specific user groups. They use the segments attribute factor to compute models. Data from the tracking script is used to deliver user segment information in every event. You can provide recommendations to distinct user groups by using segment groups and assign users to the groups according to the data collected.

> You can [create a segment group](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/personalization/segment_management/) in the Back Office of [[= product_name =]]. It serves as a container for all segments data generated by [[= product_name_cdp =]].

Author: I'd keep previous link.

Each segment group needs to be added in the [configuration key](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_activation/cdp_configuration/), under `segment_group_identifier` field.

While creating segment groups, you can use operators and segmentation logic. By using them, you can provide recommendations that are more focused and suited to the individual characteristics of your target audience, such as age, behavior, or demographics.
Parent and nested (child) segments connected by operators allow you to create complicated segment groups for precise filtering.

You can use logical operators:

- **AND** - use when you want to intersect two or more values for a particular segment. All set conditions must be met.
- **OR** - use when you want to broaden results, one of the conditions must be fulfilled.

Segments available in the Elements sections are reusable. It means you can use the same segment in different segment groups.

![Segment groups](img/segment_groups.png)

## Capabilities

### Data export

Configuration in [[= product_name_cdp =]] allows you to automate the process of exporting Content, Users, and Products.

> Under the schedule setting you can find separate sections for exporting User, Content, and Product. Structure of each section is exactly the same and includes interval and options elements:

Author: I'd keep this section.

For more information, see [data customization](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_data_customization/#data-customization) documentation in Developer Documentation.

### Client-side Tracking

The final step is setting up a tracking script.
It requires a head tracking script on your website, a main script after the head script, and cookie consent.
For more information about setting up a tracking script, see [a tutorial in Raptor documentation](https://support.raptorsmartadvisor.com/hc/en-us/articles/9563346335004-Client-Side-Tracking).

### Audience Builder

In the Audience Builder, you can create audiendes - groups of users that meet the assumed conditions. You can choose specific conditions: `did`, `did not`, or `have`.
The conditions `did` and `did not` allow you to use events like buy, visit or add to a cart from online tracking. The  `have` conditions are tied to personal characteristics and can be used to track the sum of all buys or top-visited categories. 

You can also connect created audiences to the activations.

![Audience Builder](img/audience_builder.png)

## Limitations

> [[= product_name_cdp =]] doesn't support column mapping, which allows you to match records on JSON data directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When exporting Field Type values, [[= product_name_cdp =]] doesn't support column mapping, which allows you to match records on JSON data directly.
```
If "column mapping allows you to match...", I guess the latter part of the sentence should say ", which would allow you to match records on JSON data directly."
Otherwise it sounds as if the lack of support allows this.

## Benefits

> ### Create personalized user experience

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Personalized user experience
```
This way all headers in this section are nouns.

> With [[= product_name_cdp =]] you can build unique and memorable experience for your customers and create individual customer profiles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Buold unique and memorable experience for your customers and create individual customer profiles.
```

> Using 360° client profiles, you can connect with the appropriate customer at the right moment, in the right place.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using these profiles, connect with the right customer at the right moment, in the right place.
```

> Make an extensive profile of your customers that includes their interactions, habits, and preferences from several touchpoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Build extensive customer profiles that include their interactions, habits, and preferences from several touchpoints.
```

### Segment groups

> Segments allow you to receive customized content for specific user groups and provide recommendations depending on the user data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Receive customized content for specific user groups and provide recommendations based on user data.
```

Create Segment audiences to deliver personalized campaigns and experiences to boost engagement, conversion rates, and ROI. 

### Audience Builder

> You can create user groups - audiences - based on conditions and events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create user groups - audiences - based on conditions and events.
```

### Data export

> In [[= product_name_cdp =]] you can export data regarding Content, Users, and Products. Data export includes automatic file mapping.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Export data regarding Content, Users, and Products.
Data export includes automatic file mapping.
```

> You can analyze customer data, track campaigns, and discover the most effective strategies to boost performance.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Analyze customer data, track campaigns, and discover the most effective strategies to boost performance.  
```

### Data customization

> Data exported to [[= product_name_cdp =]] can be customized, so you can control what Field Type information you want to export.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Customize data to control what Field Type information you want to export.
```
This way you do not repeat the same message.

> ### Take action in real-time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Real-time action
```

> Thanks to dynamic, real-time data updates, you can deliver relevant interactions in the right place at the right time for optimal results. Take advantage of event-triggered communications which are aligned with your customers immediate interests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deliver relevant interactions in the right place at the right time for optimal results thanks to dynamic, real-time data updates.
Take advantage of event-triggered communications which are aligned with your customers immediate interests.
```

You can target certain user segments with the appropriate message, content, or products at the right time through the most used channels by using specified audiences.
Customer data is gathered through a system of trackers embedded in various areas of your website.

![CDP - how does it work](img/cdp_how_works.png)

### Installation and configuration

To start using [[= product_name_cdp =]], first you need to contact your sales representative, who provides you with a link to [register your [[= product_name_cdp =]] account](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_installation/#install-cdp-package). When you're done with registration process, you'll be able to access a separate instance with the data needed to configure, activate, and use this feature. 

After your account is created, you can [download and install the [[= product_name_cdp =]] package](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_installation/#install-cdp-package) that is opt-in and needs to be downloaded separately. Last step is to go through the [configuration process](https://doc.ibexa.co/en/latest/cdp/cdp_activation/cdp_configuration/).

### Customer profile

> In [[= product_name_cdp =]] you can build 360° customer profiles. It unifies customer data from different sources to help you understand your prospects and customer needs. 

Author: It = Ibexa CDP.

> In [[= product_name_cdp =]] you can build 360° customer profiles. It unifies customer data from different sources to help you understand your prospects and customer needs. 

Reviewer 2: Can we then say.. "The application...", "The system..." to avoid repeating the product name and get rid of the ambiguous "It"?
